Canadiana TDR AIP Technical Specification (version 0.2)
http://canadiana.ca/schema/2012/txt/aip.txt


Abstract

    This document describes the technical specification for the
    Canadiana.org Trustworthy Digital Repository (TDR) Archival
    Information Package (AIP). The AIP is used internally to store and
    manage digital objects deposited to the TDR.


Status

    This is a working draft and is subject to change. The finalized
    specification will be given the version number 1.0. The specification
    may be amended from time to time to accomodate new functional
    requirements of the TDR and of services based on TDR content.


Purpose

    The Canadiana TDR AIP is meant for long-term archical storage of
    digital objects and their associated metadata and other sources. It
    accomodates the storage, location of digital objects and allows for
    the tracking of changes and verification of authenticity and fixity.


Scope

    Each AIP stores information for a single Submission Information
    Package (SIP).


Standards

    The following standards are used within the AIP:

    BagIt v.0.97: http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-kunze-bagit-07
    CSIP: http://canadiana.ca/schema/2012/txt/sip.txt
    CMR: http://canadiana.ca/schema/2012/xsd/cmr


Structure

    An AIP is a BagIt version 0.97 archive. The archive is structured as
    follows:

    root
    |- bagit.txt
    |- bag-info.txt
    |- data/
    |   |- changelog.txt
    |   |- cmr.xml
    |   |- revisions/
    |   |- sip/
    |- manifest-crc32.txt
    |- manifest-md5.txt

    bagit.txt

        This is the BagIt declaration file.

    bag-info.txt

        This file will contain generic human-readable metadata describing
        the content of the archive and the date of bagginbagit.txt

            This is the BagIt declaration file.

        bag-info.txt

            This file will contain general human-readable metadata
            describing the content of the archive and the date of last
            update.

        changelog.txt

            A file logging all operations made to the AIP. Each line
            consists of a timestamp in ISO 8601 combined date and time
            fomrat followed by whitespace and a description of the action
            performed. Actions logged include the following:

                - Initial creation of the AIP
                - Update of the AIP with a new SIP (and movement of the
                  previous sip into the revisions directory)
                - Update of the AIP with a new metadata record (and
                  creation of a partial revision containing the old
                  metadata record)
                - Withdrawal of the SIP and all revisions (and reason for
                  withdrawal)
                - Creation or re-creation of the CMR record (cmr.xml)

        cmr.xml

            A Canadiana Metadata Repository file derived from metadata.xml
            in the SIP.

        manifest-crc32.txt
            
            A CRC-32 decimal checksum of all files in the data directory.
            This file is used to validate the integrity of the archive
            over time. It is re-generated each time the AIP is modified.

        manifest-md5.txt

            Like manifest-crc32.txt but with MD5 hexadecimal digests. This
            manifest provides a more rigorous but slower checksum for
            validation. It too is re-generated each time the AIP is
            modified.

            Note that the sip is also a BagIt archive and contains its own
            manifest-md5.txt file for validation. Unlike the AIP manifest,
            the sip manifest is never re-generated and can therefore be
            used to ensure the long-term fixity of the sip.

        revisions

            Any time the SIP is updated, the previous version of the SIP
            is copied to the revisions directory and named according to
            the current timestamp in the form YYYYMMDDTHHMMSS in UTC. For
            example: 201020516T145512. This ensures a permanent record of
            all revisions to the SIP and allows for a reversion to a
            previous version if required.

            The SIP may be updated by replacing its metadata record only.
            In this case, a partial revision is made by creating a
            revision directory as above with the suffix ".partial"
            appended. This partial revision contains a copy of the
            replaced metadata file and a complete copy of the
            manifest-md5.txt file. This allows corrections or updates to
            be made to a metadata record without duplicating all of the
            digital content, but still retaining a record of the change
            and the ability to revert to the previous version of the
            record.

        sip

            This is a valid CSIP archive and forms the core of the AIP.
            Once ingested, the contents of this directory are never
            modified, though they may be superseded if the AIP is updated
            with a revised SIP.

Location

    Each AIP occupies a specific designated place within the repository.
    Each AIP has a unique TDR identifier which is the value of the
    locally-unique identifier provided by the depositor in the
    metadata.xml file within the SIP prefixed by the Canadiana-assigned
    depositor code and a period. The depositor code consists only of
    lowercase ASCII letters (a-z). Adding the prefix code and a dot makes
    the locally-unique identifier globally within the TDR.

    Example:

        Local identifier: 00989
        Depositor code: oocihm
        TDR identifier: oocihm.00989

    The AIP root directory name is the same as its globally-unique
    identifier. It is stored in a hashing subdirectory which is a
    three-digit number taken from the three least significant digits of
    the unique identifier's CRC32 decimal checksum. This hashing
    subdirectory is located in a depisitor directory named with depositor
    code. The depositor directory is placed under the TDR root.

    Example:

        TDR identifier: oocihm.00989
        AIP location (relative to TDR root): oocihm/594/oocihm.00989


Modification

    After initial ingest, an AIP may be updated by depositing a new SIP
    with the same identifier. The existing SIP will be moved to the
    revisions directory of the AIP and the new SIP will take its place.

    From time to time, non-sip data may be added or updated to accommodate
    new functional requirements of the TDR or applications which use it.

    Once created, an AIP may never be deleted. A SIP may be withdrawn on
    the request of the depositor, in which case the SIP, inclduing all
    previous revisions, and the derived cmr.xml file will be deleted, but
    the AIP structure, including the changelog.txt file, remain in place
    to provide a record of all creation, modification and withdrawal
    events.

